layout	Microproject 2: FIFA Data
post
Day 2 - "Progress"
What I Set Out to Do
[In your own words, describe what you were aiming to create or figure out this week. What problem were you trying to solve? What feature were you excited to try? What question did you want to answer?]

I was aiming to work on on FIFA dataset since 1872. I will do the same experiments with the data and also explore the data on my own and with tutorials


What I Actually Did
[Describe what you actually ended up doing or discovering. If things changed along the way (they often do!), what changed and why? Include screenshots, diagrams, or code snippets if helpful.]
Today, I worked with data on FIFA soccer matches since 1872. The data included different attribute including the different teams (i.e. the home team vs. the away team), the home score, the away score etc. I was first introduced to data cleaning, and had to use the .dropna() method, which removes the empty parts of the table. I added a column called "year" column that showed the year each match took place. I accessed the specific column date and sliced the four characters that represented the year, and assigned it to a new column.


What I Learned or Noticed
[What did you take away from your work this week? It could be technical (like learning how to use Pygame or CSS Grid), strategic (such as finding a better way to plan), or personal (like discovering how you stay motivated). Your takeaway might be small (figuring out a tricky method or function) or big (like realizing how much you’ve grown as a problem solver). Try to be specific—

For example:

This: ✅ “During class, we discussed dictionaries and I realized that I can use them to organize player stats way more cleanly than using parallel lists.”

NOT this: ❌ “This week helped me realize I actually enjoy debugging when I understand the bigger picture.”]

When graphing data in Python, I had to install the module matplotlib. I learned this when I got an error when I got the code. The error message told me to install the matplotlib. I searched the current Python and wrote code to install matplotlib in the terminal of Visual Studio Code. I ran the code, and I was able to install it.
I realized that I can access columns through indexing, just like I can access any other item in any other collection. I can also further index and slice the collection inside the item of the columns.


What's Next
[What do you plan to tackle in the next stage of your project?]
Next time, I will work on merging two dataframes into one dataframe and visualizing the data I collected. I also plan to experiment with data analysis and learn more if I have more time.

