---
layout: post
title: "Final Post - Advice to Future CS Students"
---

## What’s One Thing You’d Tell Someone Starting This Course?

What I would tell someone when starting this course, is to really make sure you start early, and work quickly, and overall be effective with your time. Starting homeworks the day they are assigned is definitely a great thing to do, and if you see you cannot submit them by the deadline, you can just always ask Lux for an extension.

The most important thing for someone taking this course is to perservere through the challenge. To stick through it until the end. Even if programming is not your thing, it's best to put in the work now, and be proud of yourself later. Don't give up because no matter how much you fail, you will do better than if you had never tried. 

## What Did You Learn That Might Stick With You?

I learned how programming was really like learning another language. There is a saying that the first step for learning another language is confusion. I found the same way was true for learning a programming language, like Python. The next few steps are recognizing patterns, listening (or reading), and then speaking/typing/writing. This will stick with me when I find it useful to me if I find myself stuck tackling a hard programming concept in the future. I will always remember that being confused is always a first step. While it may be hard now, it will pay off in the future.

## What Helped You Get Through Challenges?

I handled the confusion by sitting through it by myself at first and if I did not understand, I would ask Lux (my programming teacher) for help. I would say ask for help when you need it. Also, something that made me just to keep going was just that I could not give up. 

Another thing that helped me was thinking about the alternative, if I've never taken a computer programming course at all in high school. I knew that while the class was really hard, I will be much better off than if I just dropped it. I've also always wanted to learn how to code, so thinking about that also helped me. Finally, thinking about how many people usually pay to get what I got for free allowed me to see the great opportunity taking this class was.  

## What’s Next for You?

All in all, I'm really thankful for this amazing opportunity. I wish I could have this class as a Sophomore for convenience, but I still really am glad to finally say that I can do basic code. This class gave me a foundation for Python and programming. 
What's next for me? I plan to explore more data analysis. Specifically, I would like to explore the ways I can graph data. So far, I have learned how to graph line graphs and bar graphs, but I would like to explore more ways. I will revise my knowledge for this class in the future as well. Programming is an important skill to have in this day and age, and now I feel I am finally caught up!

---
