layout: post title: "Day 1 - Getting Started" 
What I Set Out to Do 
[In your own words, describe what you were aiming to create or figure out this week. What problem were you trying to solve? What feature were you excited to try? What question did you want to answer?]:
  This week, I aimed to finish a module from discovery.cs.illinois.edu. I wanted to review core concepts before I moved forward on my second microproject. I was aiming to make a singular DataFrame of all the teams that either never played a home game or never played an away game since 1872. Because I already obtained a DataFrame of every single FIFA game since 1872, I had to accomplish my task through merging specific data from the large DataFrame. If I had extra time on my hands, I would have visualized the data.

What I Actually Did [Describe what you actually ended up doing or discovering. If things changed along the way (they often do!), what changed and why? Include screenshots, diagrams, or code snippets if helpful.]: 
  I completed a module from discovery.cs.illinois.edu. I specifically focused on the Experimental Design section, the Types of Data section, and Python for Data Science section. These helped clarify some questions I had while completing the first microproject. I also merged two dataframes with unmatched dataframes together by using the pd.merge method. Because I had to merge value not found in boh datasets (i.e. unmatched values) I had to use this syntax pd.merge(how = "outer")).

  

What I Learned or Noticed [What did you take away from your work this week? It could be technical (like learning how to use Pygame or CSS Grid), strategic (such as finding a better way to plan), or personal (like discovering how you stay motivated). Your takeaway might be small (figuring out a tricky method or function) or big (like realizing how much you’ve grown as a problem solver). Try to be specific
  It was mostly just a review because this is my fourth day working with data via python, but I learned the difference between structured data and unstructured data. I learned that structured data is well-organized and categorized and unstructured data is not in a well-defined, organized, or categorized format. This information may seem intuitive, but learning these terms is important when learning data science. I also learned that in CSV files, a column is referred to as a variable and each row is called an observation. Finally, I combined two data frames into one by merging. I learned two ways to merge data frames: 1. merging dataframes with matching columns and 2. merging unmatched columns via Python. I had to merge unmatched columns via python and (pd.merge(how = "outer")) allowed me to do so.





What's Next [What do you plan to tackle in the next stage of your project?]:

  Next I plan to visualize some of these datasets that I have completed through merging
