layout: post
title: "Day 1 - Getting Started"
What I Set Out to Do
[In your own words, describe what you were aiming to create or figure out this week. What problem were you trying to solve? What feature were you excited to try? What question did you want to answer?]

I wanted to explore and analyze more data before I went to my next microproject. I wanted to work on visualization.


What I Actually Did
[Describe what you actually ended up doing or discovering. If things changed along the way (they often do!), what changed and why? Include screenshots, diagrams, or code snippets if helpful.]
I wanted to see the trends of high school students' GPAs from between 2004 and 2023. The schools that I analyzed were Winsconson, Michigan and Michigan State. I visualized this data by assigning the x and y axes to different columns of the table (i.e. year and percentage of students with GPAs, respectively), and the different lines representing the different schools.

What I Learned or Noticed
[What did you take away from your work this week? It could be technical (like learning how to use Pygame or CSS Grid), strategic (such as finding a better way to plan), or personal (like discovering how you stay motivated). Your takeaway might be small (figuring out a tricky method or function) or big (like realizing how much you’ve grown as a problem solver). Try to be specific—

For example:

This: ✅ “During class, we discussed dictionaries and I realized that I can use them to organize player stats way more cleanly than using parallel lists.”

NOT this: ❌ “This week helped me realize I actually enjoy debugging when I understand the bigger picture.”]

When graphing data in Python, I had to install the module matplotlib. I learned this when I got an error when I got the code. The error message told me to install the matplotlib. I searched the current Python and wrote code to install matplotlib in the terminal of Visual Studio Code. I ran the code, and I was able to install it.
Before today, I was following the tutorial on how to set up the graph using Python, so I had a vague idea on how the code worked. Today, I created my own question about the data, and then manipulated the code.

What's Next
[What do you plan to tackle in the next stage of your project?]
I will work on a very interesting data set on FIFA matches since 1872. I will do the same expriments with the data and also explore the data on my own (with and without the tutorial).
