---
layout: post
title: "Day 5 - Visualizing Scores of FIFA soccer teams"
---

### What I Set Out to Do 

I set out to finish visualizing the data from previous FIFA soccer games. I hoped to finish the microproject and 
get graded on my FinalProjectProgramming GitHub repository. 


### What I Actually Did 

Today, I finished visualizing the data from FIFA soccer games. First, I visualized the total scores of the top 15 teams. 
To do so, I created a new column in the newly merged dataframe, df_scores, that showed the total score of each team. I used
indexing of columns to assign the new column "total_score" to the sum of the "home_score" column and the "away_score"
column. Then, I finished visualizing the total scores of the top 15 soccer teams After that, I went on to visualize this data 
(i.e. the makeup of total scored goals of the top 15 soccer teams). I specifically made a bar graph to represent this data. 
I assigned the data to ax and used methods, strings, and lists to create the graph.
I specifically used the .nlargest() so that the bargraph could only display the top 15 teams.


To visualize the average goals scored every year in all the World Cup games a year, I had to create a dataframe
that showed all the FIFA World Cup tournament soccer games. I did this through indexing the original data frame
by column and by setting up a boolean expression. If the dataframe column read "FIFA World Cup", then the boolean
expression would be stored in a new dataframe called df_worldcup. Then, I graphed the data mainly by using
methods .groupby() and .agg.

  
### What I Learned or Noticed

One thing that I noticed was how lists were used to create the two graphs. The y-axis in both graphs
needed to contain data from away games and home games, so its value could not be represented as a string,
but a list with string elements. I learned how to use Boolean expressions to store desired data from 
another dataframe into a new dataframe. 


I also learned what .agg() was and how to utilize it. The .agg() method is used for completing basic math used in statistics. 
This method can find the median, mode, sum, mean, of dataframes and more. Finally, I learned that .nlargest() 
allows a data analyst to pick the first n rows in from greatest to least.

### What's Next
I have completed the Data Science Microprojects 1 and 8. I will experiment with the two datasets from the 
microprojects for data visualization. To help me experiment, I will finish all the modules: 
Exploratory data analysis from discovery.cs.illinois.edu.
